# Installation guide for erlang chat test

## Installation on Ubuntu 18.04

### 1. Pre-Requirements

- Make sure git is installed. https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git

- Make sure erlang is installed. http://www.erlang.org/downloads

- gedit
```
sudo apt install gedit
```

- gnome-terminal
```
sudo apt install gnome-terminal
```

### 2. Cloning the repository and compiling the sources.

```
git clone https://github.com/StartSWest/erlang_chat_test.git
```
```
cd erlang_chat_test/
```
```
./compile
```

### 3. Editing configurations

#### Server configuration

In erlang distributed system two different distributed nodes have different configurations. Two configurations files are provided in this example for main and backup servers.

The `main.config` configuration setups the main server but also sets the option *{sync_nodes_optional, ['backup_server@192.168.1.103']}* to the backup server node address. A small change has to be made for `backup.config` file to set the *{sync_nodes_optional, ['main_server@192.168.1.103']}* to the main server node address.

For editing configurations type:

```
gedit server/config/main.config
```

```
gedit server/config/backup.config
```

Edit main and backup servers name/address to match your system:

*{distributed, [{chat_server, ['main_server@192.168.1.103', {'backup_server@192.168.1.103'}]}]},

 {sync_nodes_optional, ['backup_server@192.168.1.103']},*

This uses fully qualified node names but you can use short-names too. See `client.config` to change the *server_name_type* to allow clients to connect to the server using short-names.

#### Client configuration

To edit the client configuration type:

```
gedit client/config/client.config
```

Make sure *{server_name, 'main_server@192.168.1.103'}* matches your main or backup server node address.

This option *{server_name_type, longnames}* specifies if you are using fully qualified names or short-names in the server.

The following *{server_cookie, 'secure123'}* defines the cookie that will be used to connect to the server. See section: *4. Starting the servers.*

There are also other client configurations provided in this example, such as `clientb.config` to start a client that will connect to the backup server.

To edit it type

```
gedit client/config/clientb.config
```

### 4. Starting the main and backup servers

In order to create multiple terminals / consoles, the command *gnome-terminal -- erl ...* is used inside the following bash files.

Use this command to automatically start both servers:

```
./serve
```

Use each individual command to start main or backup server individually.

```
./serve-main
```

```
./serve-backup
```

Before executing this commands first edit them to change the server node address to match your current system.

```
gedit serve | gedit serve-main | gedit serve-backup
```

Change the parameter *-name main_server@192.168.1.103* to match your system server address. You can instead use *-sname* to configure short-name address type. See *server_name_type* in `client.config` to allow clients to connect to the server using short-names.

### 5. Starting the clients

Try the following commands many times to get as many clients A and B as you want. A clients will try to connect to the main server according with its configuration in `client.config` and B clients will connect to the backup server and will use `clientb.config` configuration file.

```
./start-client
```

```
./start-clientb
```

### 6. Tests and coverage

To run tests just make sure you have both main and backup servers running `./serve` then you can type the following command:

```
./run-tests
```

This will open two terminals, each with a chat client and the testing will start. Both will try to login to both servers, one will login to main server and the other to the backup server and they will be able to interact with each other, create chat, groups and send messages. This also test distribution.

#### Coverage

You can see the test coverage by opening the web page generated by the test framework after the test is finished located in `tests_results/index.html`. You must click on *> client.tests.tests_SUITE <* link, then on * > Coverage log < * link.

### 7. Dialyzer and xref

Currently on development

# How it works

In the current architecture there is no data persistence if any of the servers goes down. A second server will take 
over the application and start it clean without no data. The users get disconnected from the server if they where 
connected to the server that went down. A second client/config/clientb.config configuration is provided in this example 
to start clients that will connect to the backup server. For this kind of setup to work as expected a proxy must be
configured in front of the servers so the clients always connect to the same address regardless of which server will
take over when the other goes down.

#### Available chat client commands/functions.

- 'login(User).': Logs in a user to the server.

- 'chat_with(TargetUser).': Sends a chat request to a target user. Returns a chat id that both users can use to chat
   with each other.

- 'send(ChatId, Message).': Sends a message to the other user involved in the chat request created by 'chat_with'.

- 'sendg(GroupName, Message).': Sends a message all users in the group.

- 'create_group(GroupName).': Creates a chat group to send messages to many users at the same time. See 'add_to_group'
  and 'sendg'.

- 'add_to_group(GroupName, User).': Adds a user to a chat group.

- 'remove_from_group(GroupName, User).': Removes a user from a chat group.

- 'logout().': Logs out the current user from the server.

- 'help().': Shows this help.
